Blog post: Camel Language Server including autocompletion from Kubernetes context (#1085)
apache/camel-website: content/blog/2023/10/camel-language-server-kubernetes-context/index.md

---

> title: "VSCode Language Support Autocompletion from Kubernetes Context"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "VS Code Language Support Autocompletion from Kubernetes Context for secrets and configmaps"
```

there was already completion for namespace, so I think we need to be a bit more specific in the title.

VSCode --> VS Code

date: 2023-10-27
authors: ["delawen"]
categories: ["Tooling"]
preview: "VSCode Language Support Autocompletion from Kubernetes Context"
summary: "The Camel Language Server is now able to autocomplete configmaps and secrets coming from a Kubernetes connection."
---

> Coming in the next VS Code Language support for Apache Camel, we are introducing a better context based autocompletion. We already had namespaces being auto completed when a related property was filled and there was a kubernetes connection configured. 

Reviewer: it is already released :-) In Vs Code language Support 0.12.0

> Coming in the next VS Code Language support for Apache Camel, we are introducing a better context based autocompletion. We already had namespaces being auto completed when a related property was filled and there was a kubernetes connection configured. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Coming in the next [VS Code Language support for Apache Camel](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-apache-camel), we are introducing a better context based autocompletion. We already had namespaces being auto completed when a related property was filled and there was a Kubernetes connection configured. 
```

Now the auto completion loads kubernetes context placeholders too as suggestions. On this case, it doesn't discriminate by name of the property or which camel connector we are configuring; it detects when a `{{secret:` or`{{configmap:` is being written as value in camel uri properties.

> <video loop="true" autoplay="true" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/726590/273884659-c03020ae-bd5b-4328-a57c-d8aa7750e79f.webm" controls="controls" muted="muted" ></video>

Reviewer: have you tried to build the site locally?
Last time I tried (several months if not years ago, the video were not working)
